Ad intent_to_retain to input descripters, Issue 289 (#335)
decentralized-identity/presentation-exchange: spec/spec.md

[[ref:Verifier]] requires of a [[ref:Holder]]. All [[ref:Input Descriptors]]
****MUST**** be satisfied, unless otherwise specified by a [[ref:Feature]].

[[ref: Input Descriptor Objects]] contain an identifier, an intent to retain
 indication and may contain constraints on data values, and an explanation why

>  a certain item or set of data is being requested.

Author: Removed, as it now is a feature anyway

  The value of the `id` property ****MUST**** be a string that does not
  conflict with the `id` of another [[ref:Input Descriptor Object]] in the same
  [[ref:Presentation Definition]].

> - The [[ref:Input Descriptor Object]] ****MUST**** contain an `intent_to_retain`

Author: Can you clarify the reason for the MAY? I made it a MUST on purpose as to protect the holder from the verifier.

  property.
  The value of the `intent_to_retain` property ****MUST**** be a boolean that 

>   indicates the [[ref:Verifier]] intents to retain the [[ref:Claim]]'s data being

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  indicates the [[ref:Verifier]]'s intent to retain the [[ref:Claim]]'s data being
```

  requested.

>   A [[ref:Verifier]] shall not retain any data, including digests, signatures,

Reviewer: Is "shall" here intentional? should it be "must not retain"?

Author: Changed

  property. If present, its value ****MUST**** be a
  [JSON LD Framing Document](https://w3c.github.io/json-ld-framing/) object.

### Retention Feature

The Retention [[ref:Feature]] extends the [[ref:Input Descriptor Object]]'s _field_ 
object, allowing a Verifier to indicate it will retain the submitted value for the

> specific field.    

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
specific field.   It is currently presented to support mDL systems, and may be deprecated in the future of a separate specification for more robust mDL interoperability is created at a later time.
```

>  future or a separate specification for more robust mDL interoperability is created at a later time.

Reviewer 3: I'm having trouble parsing the sentence that begins "It is currently . . ."  I think the 'or' maybe should be an 'if'?

>  future or a separate specification for more robust mDL interoperability is created at a later time.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 future or moved to a separate specification for more robust mDL interoperability at a later time.
```
```suggestion
 future or a separate specification for more robust mDL interoperability is created at a later time.
```

> A [[ref:Verifier]] must not retain any data, including digests, signatures,

Reviewer 3: should this be `MUST NOT` ?

> A [[ref:Verifier]] must not retain any data, including digests, signatures,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A [[ref:Conformant Consumer]] ****MUST NOT**** retain any data, including digests, signatures,
```
```suggestion
A [[ref:Verifier]] must not retain any data, including digests, signatures,
```

and derived data received, except for claims from the [[ref:Presentation Submission]] descriptors
for which the accompanying [[ref:Input Descriptor Object]]'s _field_ `intent_to_retain`
property was set to true.

Retain is defined as: “to store for a period longer than necessary to conduct the

> exchange between [[ref:Holder]] and [[ref:Verifier]] in realtime”.

Reviewer 3: What is meant by "the exchange between ..."? Is that the presentation exchange process?
Does that mean the verifier can't keep the data longer than the exchange period, and once they get it they have to immediately throw it away?
If that is the case, why are they asking for the data if they need to throw it away as soon as they get it?

There's something I'm not understanding here.

When using this [[ref:Feature]]:
- `intent_to_retain` - The _fields_ object inside an [[ref:Input Descriptor Object]] ****MAY****
 contain an `intent_to_retain` property.
 If present, its value ****MUST**** be a boolean that indicates the [[ref:Verifier]]
 intents to retain the [[ref:Claim]]'s data being requested. 

>  If not present, this feature is not enabled, which equates to `intent_to_retain` being `false` 

Reviewer 4: does this force the feature, by implicitly making its missing value false

Author: Line has been removed completely as a Feature will be there or it won't

>  intents to retain the [[ref:Claim]]'s data being requested.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 intends to retain the [[ref:Claim]]'s data being requested.
```
